README.md, before:

# City Letter Finder Application

This application allows users to enter a letter and see the number of cities beginning with that letter from the OpenWeatherMap API.

## Features

- Enter a single letter to search for cities
- View the count of cities starting with the entered letter
- See a list of matching city names
- Responsive UI design

## Prerequisites

- Java 17 or higher
- Gradle (or use the included Gradle wrapper)
- Internet connection to access the OpenWeatherMap API

## Building the Project

You can build the project using the Gradle wrapper:

```bash
./gradlew build
```

This will compile the code, run tests, and create an executable JAR file.

## Running the Application

After building, you can run the application using:

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Or you can run the JAR file directly:

```bash
java -jar build/libs/city-letter-finder-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

The application will start and be available at http://localhost:8080

## How to Use

1. Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:8080
2. Enter a single letter in the input field
3. Click the "Search" button or press Enter
4. The application will display:
   - The number of cities starting with the entered letter
   - A list of the matching city names

For example:
- Entering "y" will show 1 city (Yafran)
- Entering "z" will show 3 cities (Zuwarah, Zawiya, Zlitan)

## API Endpoints

The application provides the following REST API endpoints:

- `GET /api/weather` - Returns all weather data
- `GET /api/weather/cities/count?letter={letter}` - Returns the count of cities starting with the given letter
- `GET /api/weather/cities?letter={letter}` - Returns a list of city names starting with the given letter

## Technology Stack

- Backend: Java 17, Spring Boot 3.4.5
- Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- Build Tool: Gradle
- Testing: JUnit (backend), Jest (frontend)
- Code Quality: Checkstyle, PMD
- Additional Dependencies:
  - Netty DNS resolver for MacOS (for proper DNS resolution on MacOS systems)
    - Supports both Intel (x86_64) and Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) architectures

## Project Structure

- `src/main/java/com/hsbc/candidate/codingtest` - Java source code
  - `client` - API client for external services
  - `config` - Configuration classes
  - `controller` - REST API controllers
  - `exception` - Exception handling classes
  - `model` - Data models
  - `service` - Business logic
- `src/main/resources/static` - Frontend files (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)
- `src/test/java` - Backend test code
- `src/test/resources/static` - Frontend test code
- `STORY.md` - User story with detailed acceptance criteria

## Architecture

The application follows a layered architecture pattern with clear separation of concerns:

### Layered Architecture

1. **Presentation Layer (Controllers)**
   - `WeatherController`: Handles HTTP requests, validates input, and returns appropriate responses
   - Uses reactive programming with Spring WebFlux for non-blocking request handling
   - Endpoints are mapped to specific service methods

2. **Service Layer**
   - `WeatherService`: Contains business logic for processing weather data
   - Filters cities based on starting letter
   - Transforms data from external API into application-specific format
   - Handles validation and error cases

3. **Client Layer**
   - `WeatherServiceClient`: Communicates with external OpenWeather API
   - Uses WebClient for reactive HTTP requests
   - Implements retry logic for handling transient failures

4. **Model Layer**
   - Domain models representing weather data (City, Weather, etc.)
   - Data transfer objects for API responses

### Exception Handling

The application implements a comprehensive exception handling strategy:

- **GlobalExceptionHandler**: Central exception handler that processes all exceptions
  - Maps exceptions to appropriate HTTP status codes
  - Provides consistent error response format
  - Logs exceptions with appropriate severity levels

- **Exception Types**:
  - `ApplicationException`: Base class for application-specific exceptions
  - `SystemException`: For system-level errors
  - `WeatherServiceException`: For errors related to weather service operations
  - Standard Spring exceptions (WebExchangeBindException, etc.)

- **Error Response Format**:
  - Error code (application-specific identifier)
  - Error message (user-friendly description)
  - HTTP status code
  - Timestamp
  - Request path
  - Additional details (when available)

### Configuration

- **WeatherServiceWebclientConfig**: Configures the WebClient for API communication
- **OpenWeatherApiBboxConfig**: Configures the bounding box parameters for the OpenWeather API
- **ValidationConfig**: Sets up validation for request parameters

### Component Interaction Flow

1. Client sends HTTP request to a controller endpoint
2. Controller validates input and delegates to service layer
3. Service layer processes the request, using the client layer when needed
4. Client layer communicates with external API
5. Service layer transforms and filters the response
6. Controller returns the processed data to the client
7. If errors occur at any stage, they're caught by the GlobalExceptionHandler

### Reactive Programming

The application uses reactive programming (Project Reactor) for:
- Non-blocking I/O operations
- Efficient resource utilization
- Handling backpressure
- Composing asynchronous operations

## UI Features

The UI has been improved with the following features:

- Real-time input validation with visual feedback
- Clear button to reset the form
- Enhanced error handling and display
- Improved visual design with better spacing and colors

## Testing

### Backend Tests

Backend tests are written using JUnit and can be run with Gradle:

```bash
./gradlew test
```

### Frontend Tests

Frontend tests are written using Jest and can be run with npm:

```bash
npm test
```

See `src/test/resources/static/README.md` for more details on setting up and running the frontend tests.

## Code Quality

The project uses the following code quality tools:

### Checkstyle

Checkstyle is used to enforce coding standards. You can run Checkstyle with:

```bash
./gradlew checkstyleMain  # For main source code
./gradlew checkstyleTest  # For test source code
```

### PMD

PMD is used to detect potential code issues. You can run PMD with:

```bash
./gradlew pmdMain  # For main source code
./gradlew pmdTest  # For test source code
```

For more details on the code quality tools configuration, see `README-code-quality.md`.

## Data Source

The application fetches data from the OpenWeatherMap API:
https://samples.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/box/city?bbox=12,32,15,37,10&appid=b6907d289e10d714a6e88b30761fae22

Commit message:

TEST-0000: updated Readme for UI migration

README.md, after:

# City Letter Finder Application

This application allows users to enter a letter and see the number of cities beginning with that letter from the OpenWeatherMap API.

## Features

- Enter a single letter to search for cities
- View the count of cities starting with the entered letter
- See a list of matching city names
- Responsive UI design

## Prerequisites

- Java 17 or higher
- Gradle (or use the included Gradle wrapper)
- Internet connection to access the OpenWeatherMap API

## Building the Project

You can build the project using the Gradle wrapper:

```bash
./gradlew build
```

This will compile the code, run tests, and create an executable JAR file.

## Running the Application

After building, you can run the application using:

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Or you can run the JAR file directly:

```bash
java -jar build/libs/city-letter-finder-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

The application will start and be available at http://localhost:8080

## How to Use

1. Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:8080
2. Enter a single letter in the input field
3. Click the "Search" button or press Enter
4. The application will display:
   - The number of cities starting with the entered letter
   - A list of the matching city names

For example:
- Entering "y" will show 1 city (Yafran)
- Entering "z" will show 3 cities (Zuwarah, Zawiya, Zlitan)

## API Endpoints

The application provides the following REST API endpoints:

- `GET /api/weather` - Returns all weather data
- `GET /api/weather/cities/count?letter={letter}` - Returns the count of cities starting with the given letter
- `GET /api/weather/cities?letter={letter}` - Returns a list of city names starting with the given letter

## Technology Stack

- Backend: Java 17, Spring Boot 3.4.5
- Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- Build Tool: Gradle
- Testing: JUnit (backend), Jest (frontend)
- Code Quality: Checkstyle, PMD
- Additional Dependencies:
  - Netty DNS resolver for MacOS (for proper DNS resolution on MacOS systems)
    - Supports both Intel (x86_64) and Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) architectures

## Project Structure

- `src/main/java/com/hsbc/candidate/codingtest` - Java source code
  - `client` - API client for external services
  - `config` - Configuration classes
  - `controller` - REST API controllers
  - `exception` - Exception handling classes
  - `model` - Data models
  - `service` - Business logic
- `src/main/resources/static` - Frontend files (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)
- `src/test/java` - Backend test code
- `src/test/resources/static` - Frontend test code
- `STORY.md` - User story with detailed acceptance criteria

## Architecture

The application follows a layered architecture pattern with clear separation of concerns:

### Layered Architecture

1. **Presentation Layer (Controllers)**
   - `WeatherController`: Handles HTTP requests, validates input, and returns appropriate responses
   - Uses reactive programming with Spring WebFlux for non-blocking request handling
   - Endpoints are mapped to specific service methods

2. **Service Layer**
   - `WeatherService`: Contains business logic for processing weather data
   - Filters cities based on starting letter
   - Transforms data from external API into application-specific format
   - Handles validation and error cases

3. **Client Layer**
   - `WeatherServiceClient`: Communicates with external OpenWeather API
   - Uses WebClient for reactive HTTP requests
   - Implements retry logic for handling transient failures

4. **Model Layer**
   - Domain models representing weather data (City, Weather, etc.)
   - Data transfer objects for API responses

### Exception Handling

The application implements a comprehensive exception handling strategy:

- **GlobalExceptionHandler**: Central exception handler that processes all exceptions
  - Maps exceptions to appropriate HTTP status codes
  - Provides consistent error response format
  - Logs exceptions with appropriate severity levels

- **Exception Types**:
  - `ApplicationException`: Base class for application-specific exceptions
  - `SystemException`: For system-level errors
  - `WeatherServiceException`: For errors related to weather service operations
  - Standard Spring exceptions (WebExchangeBindException, etc.)

- **Error Response Format**:
  - Error code (application-specific identifier)
  - Error message (user-friendly description)
  - HTTP status code
  - Timestamp
  - Request path
  - Additional details (when available)

### Configuration

- **WeatherServiceWebclientConfig**: Configures the WebClient for API communication
- **OpenWeatherApiBboxConfig**: Configures the bounding box parameters for the OpenWeather API
- **ValidationConfig**: Sets up validation for request parameters

### Component Interaction Flow

1. Client sends HTTP request to a controller endpoint
2. Controller validates input and delegates to service layer
3. Service layer processes the request, using the client layer when needed
4. Client layer communicates with external API
5. Service layer transforms and filters the response
6. Controller returns the processed data to the client
7. If errors occur at any stage, they're caught by the GlobalExceptionHandler

### Reactive Programming

The application uses reactive programming (Project Reactor) for:
- Non-blocking I/O operations
- Efficient resource utilization
- Handling backpressure
- Composing asynchronous operations

## UI Features

The UI has been improved with the following features:

- Real-time input validation with visual feedback
- Clear button to reset the form
- Enhanced error handling and display
- Improved visual design with better spacing and colors

### Current Implementation

The current UI is implemented using vanilla HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, which is embedded within the Spring Boot application. This approach provides a simple and lightweight frontend that is tightly coupled with the backend.

### Future Considerations

While the current implementation is sufficient for the application's needs, there are several benefits to moving to a modern frontend framework like React:

- **Component-Based Architecture**: React's component-based approach would make the UI more modular and easier to maintain
- **State Management**: Better state management with tools like Redux or Context API
- **Developer Experience**: Improved developer experience with hot reloading and better debugging tools
- **Performance**: Virtual DOM for efficient rendering and better performance
- **Ecosystem**: Access to a rich ecosystem of libraries and tools

#### Potential Migration Path

1. Create a separate React application for the frontend
2. Configure the React app to communicate with the existing Spring Boot backend API
3. Deploy the React app separately from the backend
4. Gradually migrate features from the current UI to the React app

This separation of concerns would allow for independent scaling and deployment of the frontend and backend components, following microservices best practices.

## Testing

### Backend Tests

Backend tests are written using JUnit and can be run with Gradle:

```bash
./gradlew test
```

### Frontend Tests

Frontend tests are written using Jest and can be run with npm:

```bash
npm test
```

See `src/test/resources/static/README.md` for more details on setting up and running the frontend tests.

## Code Quality

The project uses the following code quality tools:

### Checkstyle

Checkstyle is used to enforce coding standards. You can run Checkstyle with:

```bash
./gradlew checkstyleMain  # For main source code
./gradlew checkstyleTest  # For test source code
```

### PMD

PMD is used to detect potential code issues. You can run PMD with:

```bash
./gradlew pmdMain  # For main source code
./gradlew pmdTest  # For test source code
```

For more details on the code quality tools configuration, see `README-code-quality.md`.

## Data Source

The application fetches data from the OpenWeatherMap API:
https://samples.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/box/city?bbox=12,32,15,37,10&appid=b6907d289e10d714a6e88b30761fae22
